# data-generator
The purpose of this project is to facilitate realistic data generation for web application databases in Postgres and Databricks.

I manage multiple web applications at my current place of employment. Since the data housed in our production environment is confidential, it cannot be transferred to a development environment. This creates the need for generating large amounts of random data to populate our development schemas. Because much of the data is financial and includes specific business logic that we parse in our applications, it is often necessary to write elaborate scripts for our database tables. These scripts are usually last-minute and sloppy, and there is no knowledge transfer between developers, creating a lot of duplicate effort. There's also no easy way to visualize the data until it's dumped into the database (or fails during insert). I wanted to address this issue on our team with a simple web application for building out schemas, then specifying the data generated for each field in the schema.

Note that this repo omits certain proprietary libraries for authentication and error handling. It is mainly a code reference and an example of a personal project I built in my spare time to facilitate faster development for my team. On our platform, the application connects to both our development Postgres and Databricks instances. The connections are configurable via an env file. The application is designed to facilitate pulling in existing schemas from Databricks/Postgres, parsing them into a standard layout for storage in the web app's designated Postgres database in JSON format. The web app is also able to push new schemas to Databricks/Postgres if a user prefers to start from scratch. Push/replace operations allow users to insert their data directly into a database, but they can also stream an export of their data to the designated AWS S3 bucket. They can then download to their computer at will and import into a database via a data import service such as pgAdmin or the Databricks UX provide.
